Adapter deprecation update blog (#383)
keycloak/keycloak-web: blog/2023/adapter-deprecation-update.adoc

:title: Update on deprecation of Keycloak adapters
:date: 2023-03-29
:publish: true
:author: Stian Thorgersen

In 2022 we announced the deprecation of https://www.keycloak.org/2022/02/adapter-deprecation.html[deprecating Keycloak adapters], with
a plan to stop delivering most adapters in https://www.keycloak.org/2022/03/releases.html[Keycloak 19].

As we have not been able to make sufficient progress on finding alternatives and work on supporting material to help

> migrating away from Keycloak adapters we are extending the life of the Keycloak adapters.

Author: ```suggestion
migrating away from Keycloak adapters we are extending the life of the Keycloak adapters.

The plan is still to eventually stop delivering bespoke Keycloak adapters in the future, but we will do this in a more gradual process than previous laid out. 

We still strongly belive that the community as a whole are better served by us focusing more on the Keycloak server with better compliance and support for specifications such as OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect, while leaving the integration in various programming languages and frameworks to the relevant communities, which will be able to deliver more feature rich and better integrated libraries than we will ever be able to.
```

Reviewer: +1 to this addition

* [Jakarta Security 3.0]https://jakarta.ee/specifications/security/3.0/jakarta-security-spec-3.0.html#openid-connect-annotation - OpenID Connect support in Jakarta EE 10
* [Elytron OIDC]https://wildfly-security.github.io/wildfly-elytron/blog/securing-wildfly-apps-openid-connect/ - OpenID Connect support in WildFly
* [Quarkus OIDC]https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect - OpenID Connect support for Quarkus applications
* [Spring Security]https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/oauth2/index.html - OAuth and OpenID Connect support in Spring
* [Pac4j]https://www.pac4j.org/ - The Java security framework to protect all your web applications and web services

Neither of these have support for Keycloak Authorization Services though, which is why we are planning to introduce a
generic Java client libraries for Authorization Services that can be leveraged with other OpenID Connect client libraries.
Expect this to be delivered in Keycloak 22.

The Keycloak Java adapters will remain for a while though, at least towards the end of the year, but likely not be removed

> until early 2024. At the same time don't expect the adapters to be updated to support newer versions of

Author: ```suggestion
until early 2024. At the same time don't expect the adapters to be updated in terms of adding new features, enhancements, or supporting newer versions of
```

> Tomcat, Jetty, WildFly, or Spring.

Reviewer: We can also add some sentence like: `Also don't expect adapters to be updated with new OIDC/OAuth capabilities added to Keycloak server.` ?

But leaving to you if you prefer to add something like this or not.
